We now have a bit better idea of how an SPG element works along with circle elements.
Now in this video I want to tell you a little bit more about circles and some special properties around
them.
And this is going to start to help us understand how we're going to finally implement that animation.
OK so couple of things I want you to understand about circles where we draw out a circle using an SPG
element.
There are really two parts that circle the inside of the circle or kind of like the content inside.
We refer to as the fill be border going around the outside the circle rather than calling it simply
a border.
We instead call it a stroke we can change the color of the fill and the stroke by adding in some additional
HDL properties to our circle element.
We can also change the width of the stroke or the border as well.
At the same time.
So let's go back over to our H small file.
We're gonna start to play around with these different properties little bit and see what effect it actually
has on our circle okay.
So I'm gonna go back to my HDL file.
I'm going to first change the dimensions of the circle just slightly so we can see these changes to
the Phil and stroke a little bit more easily.
So I can increase the radius to 90 I'm going to take my six to one hundred and see wide to 100 as well.
Let's save this and refresh our app just to see the effect it has okay.
So that's what it looks like now.
Now a quick reminder just really quickly.
Remember I wrote my browser very far zoomed in so you probably see something a little bit closer to
that right there.
OK.
So let's try changing the fill and the stroke.
I'm going to first give myself a little bit of space to work with is we're going to eventually add in
several different properties here
it's going to put in a fill of red and a stroke of blue.
I'm also going to set these stroke width property as well so stroke dash width and I'll pass in ten
for that.
So this means make the center of the circle blue or something to make the center the circle red.
Make the border blue and the border should be about 10 pixels wide or ten pixels thick.
Let's save this.
Go back over and see what happens.
Well yep that's pretty much it.
So now we've got the red interior the blue exterior.
If we start to increase the stroke with here to say like 50 the border is going to get that much larger
going to stick with 10 for now cause it's a little bit easier on the eyes but there's another very interesting
value for Phil that we can use for our application is really relevant to what we are trying to do for
the fill.
We could specify a color of transparent which means make the center of the circle see through.
So if we use a fill up transparent that means we could very easily start to see some timer elements
behind this thing or something like that.
It's all set filtered transparent.
And now the center polygon and I can see directly through it guess that some basic additional properties
around a circle and there's a couple of more that we're going to help us modify or play around with
that stroke.
Let's take a look at a couple more diagrams and understand what these other properties are that are
going to allow us to modify the border around the exterior so the first additional property I want you
to understand is stroke dash dash Ray.
We're going to give this a number of value and it's going to specify the length of a dash around the
perimeter or essentially for the border of the circle.
Let's try adding in this property and playing around with it just a little bit so go back over to my
ECMO file and I'm going to add in a stroke dash dash right and I'll start out with 10 flat means give
me a dash border and I want each segment of the dash to be 10 pixels long and then a 10 pixel gap before
the next dash segment.
So I'll say this go back over and refresh so this means or I can see very easily now I've got about
10 pixels of dash and then a 10 pixel gap and 10 pixels dash 10 pixel gap and so on around the exterior
this dash Ray property technically accepts two different values.
If we only pass in one then 10 will be used for two for both the different values the first value we
pass in is going to be the length of the dash and if we pass in a second it is totally optional it will
be used as the spacing in between each dash segment.
So for example if I put in a ten and then a five that means give me dash lengths of 10 and then spacing
in between each those dashes of five so we can save this go back over and we'll see we've got about
10 units of dash and five units of spacing in between but again if we just put in the one number that
means give us give us identical dash lengths and gaps as well.
It's going to leave it at 10 for right now OK so this looks good.
I want to remind you of something about properties of circles in general.
So if we take a circle and we measure its radius.
So that's going to be from the very center point to the outside edge.
We can calculate the entire perimeter of the circle so the total length of the outside edge by using
the formula two times pi times the radius.
Now the radius that we just changed our circle to is 90.
So if we do two times pi times 90 we end up with five hundred sixty five.
So that means that the total length of the outside edge of the circle is about five hundred sixty five
pixels so that calculation in mind we can start to draw like a quarter or like a half segment of border
around the circle.
Let me show you in my terminal I'm going to calculate two times math dot pi times 90 and then divide
that by two.
So that gives me about two hundred eighty two.
So if we enter in a dash array of two hundred eighty two.
That means that we want to have about half circle have a dash and then have this half the circle not
have a dash.
I got to go back over and try updating the dash rate to about 280 to the if I now save that and then
refresh.
There we go.
So I've now got half the circle with a dash half about it we can do something very similar so to Tony's
math dot pi times 90 and then this time I will.
How about multiply by one quarter so point two five.
So now I would have just a quarter segment if I use that 141 it's now I get a quarter half a quarter
of know dash half a quarter dash half a quarter of no dash.
I mean of course.
Last thing I want to show you around this perimeter is if we do the full five sixty five or just slightly
less than it that should give us just about the entire length of the thing and then leave us just a
little bit of a gap so I'll do red around 560 and just leave a little bit of a gap.
So now I can see I get a whole bunch of water and I'm just a tiny little gap at the very edge so the
next I want to tell you about this circle is that the border is always started started drawn from the
right hand side and it draws around clockwise and we can see that very easily with the border dash array
or these stroke dash right that we just added on.
So it's very clear that the border starts right there and then travels around clockwise until it decides
to hit a empty spot we can start to play around with that value of dash array.
So I going to change it really quickly here several times.
It's going to start to decrease it to say 550 and I can see that the gap is a little bit larger.
I can go to 520 a little larger.
I go to four eighty little larger yet OK.
So that's how we can get like adjust about full border but have a gap at the very end.
So now there's just one last thing I want to show you.
I'm going to change the dash Ray back to the full about five 60 or so the last property I want to show
you is called the dash offset the dash offset is a really tricky property to understand.
Suffice it to say if we have a border that goes just about around the entire outside edge dash offsets
will introduce an extra little spacing right there let's play around with dash off set just to get a
sense of what's going on with it so back on my circle element I'm going to add on stroke dash dash offset
and I'll start it off at 10.
So this means in addition to that little space we have right there.
Give us another extra 10 units of spacing as well.
So that's gonna give us a little 10 extra units of the white space right there.
So save this refresh and I can clearly see it 10 extra units or about 10 extra units I don't actually
know what 10 units looks like but hey there's 10 right there.
Now if I start to increase that value to say 20 some more if go to say 40 I get more yet if I go to
one hundred.
OK one forty that should be about a quarter and then if I go to about two or is it 80 or so to two that's
going to be about half and I can eventually essentially unravel the entire thing by specifying about
560.
So that's going to give me extra whitespace all the way around that outside edge back to AROUND RIGHT
THERE.
OK.
So the dash array and a dash offset properties are how we're going to actually pull off this animation.
So let's take a pause right here in the next video.
We're going to take another look at these properties and I'll explain exactly how we're going to use
them to actually show the animation on the screen.